#Kirby Changelog

## 1.1.1

### Update from 1.1.0 to 1.1.1

To update from 1.1.0 to 1.1.1 replace the `kirby` system folder. Delete all files in site/cache, if you got caching enabled. 

### Changes

- fixed a possible bug in variables.php
- added a better content protection rule to the htaccess
- removed ?> in kirby.php
- fixed a potential bug in kirbytext
- fixed a potential bug in the troubleshoot modal
- implemented Lukas' $page->hasTemplate()
- improved markdown configuration
- added smartypants
- fixed a strict bug in the uri class when language support is switched on
- fixed a compatibility issue with Apache on Win where : as param separator in URLs is not allowed
- added a new config var to set content files, which should be ignored. .svn .git and .htaccess files are now ignored by default. Suggested by https://github.com/bastianallgeier/kirbycms/pull/30
- added async script loading to the js() helper function. (https://github.com/bastianallgeier/kirbycms/pull/40)
- fixed a bug in site.php, which broke language switching
- added new ecco and dump helper functions 
- added new compatibility check with mbstring functions
- new $pages->nth($n) and $files->nth($n) method
- new operators for filterBy methods (!= and *=)
- Now actually using the config option 'tinyurl.folder' (PR: https://github.com/bastianallgeier/kirbycms/pull/44)
- changed async javascript loading default to false 

## 1.1.0 

### Update from 1.0.9 to 1.1.0

To update from 1.0.9 to 1.1.0 replace the `kirby` system folder. Delete all files in site/cache, if you got caching enabled. 

PLEASE REPLACE YOUR OLD HTACCESS FILE WITH THE NEW HTACCESS FILE!!!

### Changes

- added full multi-language support
- multi-language box fixes
- auto-subfolder detection
- removed the favicons from the default template to keep it more simple
- fixed some inconsistencies in the templates
- improved the config
- all invisible content files are now skipped
- added a Kirby Panel Version check. 
- fixed a caching bug
- changeable content file extensions
- new improved handling of plugins in the plugins folder (by Lukas)

## 1.0.9

### Update from 1.0.8 to 1.0.9

To update from 1.0.8 to 1.0.9 replace the `kirby` system folder. Delete all files in site/cache, if you got caching enabled. 

### Changes

- fixed a bug in pages::filterBy(). 
- fixed a possible php error in kirbytext::init()
- fixed a bug in pages::without()
- proper 404 header for error pages
- improved uri::raw() method
- added optional php markdown extra parser
- updated to kirby toolkit 0.930
- new files::filterBy() method

## 1.0.8

### Update from 1.0.7 to 1.0.8

To update from 1.0.7 to 1.0.8 replace the `kirby` system folder. Delete all files in site/cache, if you got caching enabled. 

### Changes

- fixed a bug in pages::findBy(). Strict comparison did break comparing strings. 
- added a yaml parser

## 1.0.7

### Update from 1.0.6 to 1.0.7

To update from 1.0.6 to 1.0.7 replace the `kirby` system folder. Delete all files in site/cache, if you got caching enabled. 

### Changes

- made sure the .htaccess file is no longer a binary to avoid permission problems.  
- fixed a bug with invalid variable names in content files. They get converted to valid function names now. 
- added strict comparison for objects to improve performance and avoid nested errors. 
- added $pages->files()->flip() to be compliant with the pages class
- added a recommended values section to the htaccess file. 

## 1.0.6

### Update from 1.0.5 to 1.0.6

To update from 1.0.5 to 1.0.6 replace the `kirby` system folder.

### Changes

- fixed a bug with numeric folder names (2010, 1234, etc.)
- added rel="" to the kirbytext link tag: (link: http://google.com rel: nofollow)

## 1.0.5

### Update from 1.0.4 to 1.0.5

To update from 1.0.4 to 1.0.5 replace the `kirby` system folder.

### Changes

- it's now possible to have subdirectory-less blog article urls. 
- fixed a bug in parsers/kirbytext.php
- fixed a bug in lib/files.php
- updated the toolkit to 0.929

## 1.0.4

### Update from 1.0.3 to 1.0.4

To update from 1.0.3 to 1.0.4 replace the `kirby` system folder.

### Changes

- new cache::expired() method and better cache::get() method
- removed the c::set('root.content',…) rule from the config file. It breaks setting the content directory in the index.php
- fixed a bug in str::split and updated to kirby toolkit 0.9.2.7
- fixed a bug in page::parseName()
- fixed a bug in kirbytext which caused a fatal error in older php versions
- more logical instructions on the subfolder modal
- fixed a possible bug in kirby/lib/variables.php

## 1.0.3

### Update from 1.0.2 to 1.0.3

To update from 1.0.2 to 1.0.3 replace the `kirby` system folder.

### Changes

- date fields can now be sorted correctly with sortBy
- kirbytext can now be extended
- new param() helper function
- new $pages->filterBy() method
- new way to load library files

## 1.0.2

### Update from 1.0.1 to 1.0.2

To update from 1.0.1 to 1.0.2 replace the `kirby` system folder and remove the old changelog.mdown file from your main site folder. The new changelog file is now inside the kirby system folder and will update automatically with each new download. 

### Changes

- bug fix in kirby/lib/helpers.php – snippet()
- moved the changelog to the kirby folder so you get an updated version with each update. 
- fixed $pages->sortBy() and $page->files->sortBy()
- switched to kirby toolkit 0.925
- added an array of custom variables to the $site object
- added class and title attributes wherever possible in kirbytext tags 
- added pagination.variable and pagination.method to kirby/defaults.php to keep them adjustable.

## 1.0.1

### Update from 1.0 to 1.0.1

To update from 1.0 to 1.0.1 replace the `kirby` system folder.

### Changes

- switched from flash embeds for Youtube and Vimeo videos in kirbytext to iframe embedded videos, to make them work on mobile devices. Thanks to @nirusu for the suggestion.
- merged the pull request from nebelschwade: https://github.com/bastianallgeier/kirbycms/pull/1, which removes the default type attribute in script and link tags and adds improved css media handling. 
- added the kirby toolkit 0.922
- added $page->depth() to get a numeric representation of the subfolder level.
- fixed the variable splitter for text files. 

## 1.0

### Update from 1.0 RC2 to 1.0:

To update from 1.0 RC2 to 1.0 replace the `kirby` system folder and replace site/config/config.php if you didn't change anything there.

### Changes

- added the homepage setup to the default config file. 
- added the license key setup to the default config file. 

## 1.0 RC2

### Update from 1.0 RC to 1.0 RC2:

To update from 1.0 RC to 1.0 RC2 replace the `kirby` system folder.

### Changes

- added the latest Kirby Toolkit version (0.92)
- fixed the missing subfolder installation screen
- improved caching again
- added c::set('cache.autoupdate', true); which can be switched off to avoid filesystem access to check for the last change in the content folder. 
- fixed a potential bug in $site->modified()

## 1.0 RC

### Update from 0.9.9.1 to 1.0 RC:

To update from 0.9.9.1 to 1.0 RC replace the `kirby` system folder.

### Changes

- fixed a bug in `$pages->active()` which broke setting your own home uri
- fixed a bug in `$pages->isOpen()` which didn't mark the homepage as open even if it was
- changed `$pages->get()` and `$files->get()` to `$pages->slice` and `$files->slice`. This should have been already fixed :(
- fixed a bug in almost every count method in the pages class. 
- fixed a potential bug in the uri class, for subfolder installations
- changed the caching in `kirby/lib/site.php` to be more effective
- changed the `$page->url()` method to return the homepage url without any path attached. 
- fixed a bug in the tinyurl redirection. 

## 0.9.9.1

### Damn, I need more versions :)

### Update from 0.9.9.0 to 0.9.9.1:

To update from 0.9.9 to 0.9.9.1 replace the `kirby` system folder and if you didn't change anything there yet, also the .htaccess file and the site/config/config.php. But that's only cosmetics.

### Changes

- changed the layout of the site/config/config.php to be more easy to understand
- added a default timezone to kirby/config.php
- changed kirby/config.php to kirby/defaults.php to make it clearer that this should not be edited
- added more descriptions and help to the default .htaccess file
- removed kirby/parsers/html.php, kirby/parsers/multiline.php and kirby/parsers/xml.php and merged them all in one kirby/parsers/defaults.php file. 
- replaced the assets/images/apple-touch-icon.png and assets/images/favicon.png with newer versions. 
- slightly cleaned up the assets/styles/styles.css
- slightly changed the readme.mdown
- slightly changed the license.mdown
- fixed a bug in the pagination class
- the pagination class has two more functions `numStart()` and `numEnd()`  
- added c::set('cache.ignore', array()); to make it easy to ignore certain pages while caching. 
- made it possible to switch to query pagination instead of params
- added ranged pagination

## 0.9.9

### Update from 0.9.8 to 0.9.9:

To update from 0.9.8 to 0.9.9 replace the `kirby` system folder and the index.php

### Changes

- removed `$site->find()` to avoid duplicates and strict errors
- cleaned (hopefully) all `E_STRICT` warnings. 
- added a troubleshooting screen which you can activate in your site config, when something is wrong: `c::set('troubleshoot', true)`
- added an improved subfolder setup screen
- added a check for the kirby system file to the index.php

## 0.9.8

### Update from 0.9.7 to 0.9.8:

To update from 0.9.7 to 0.9.8 simply replace the `kirby` system folder.

### Changes

- bug fix in pagination class
- new children function for a set of pages, which gathers all children for all pages in the set
- `$pages->find('page-a', 'page-b')` can take multiple page uids now and returns a set of all matches
- the same applies to `$pages->findByUID()`, `$pages->findByDirname()`, `$pages->findByTitle()` and `$pages->findByHash()`
- renamed `$files->get()` and `$pages->get()` into `$files->slice()` and `$pages->slice()`
- cleaned a few things in the uri class


## 0.9.7

### Update from 0.9.6 to 0.9.7:

To update from 0.9.6 to 0.9.7 simply replace the `kirby` system folder.

### Changes

- fixed a bug in kirby/lib/files.php
- new shuffle function for pages and files i.e. `$page->children()->shuffle()`
- switched to kirby toolkit 0.9.1
- another fix for the field detection in text files

## 0.9.6

### Update from 0.9.5 to 0.9.6:

To update from 0.9.4 to 0.9.5 simply replace the `kirby` system folder and the .htaccess file.

### Changes

- changed the version number for the kirby toolkit from 0.6 to 0.9
- used a new regular expression to split the fields in text files. 
- fixed a bug in the pagination class
- you can now add class names to kirbytext links
- fixed some bugs in kirbytext
- fixed a bug in the url function, which broke sites without url rewriting


## 0.9.5

### Update from 0.9.4 to 0.9.5:

To update from 0.9.4 to 0.9.5 simply replace the `kirby` system folder and the .htaccess file.

### Changes

- added a `highlight()` hook for the `kirbytext()` parser to enable custom code highlighting
- added ``` ``` code blocks to kirbytext
- fixed a notice bug in kirbytext
- added config var for markdown breaks
- small change in the `.htaccess` file to make `/file:image.jpg` urls possible
- added local file urls i.e. `(http://yourdomain.com/blog/file:01.png)`
- fixed a small bug in `a::sort()` function 
- fixed bug in files fetcher
- removed the txt class and added variable fetching to the variables class
- better video support in `kirby/lib/files.php`
- fixed a bug in the `excerpt()` function
- Revamped the URI class. 


## 0.9.4

### Update from 0.9.3 to 0.9.4:

To update from 0.9.3 to 0.9.4 simply replace the `kirby` system folder. Also replace the .htaccess file if you got problems with the php_flag short_open_tag on directive. 

### Changes

- disabled `php_flag short_open_tag on` in the .htaccess file by default as it causes problems on some servers. 
- gist embedding in kirbytext
- `excerpt($text, 0)` returns the entire text but without html
- automatic detection of misconfigured subfolder installation
- fixed a bug in kirbytext
- added new variable object for all custom variables of a page
- all query objects fail silently now when converted to a string. They will actually return some nice informative html. So now you can do stuff like `<?= $pages ?>` or `<?= $pages->find('blog') ?>` without error messages.
- new `$page->modified($format=false)` function
- new `$site->url()` function
- new `$site->find($uri)` function, which is a alternative for `$pages->find($uri)`

## 0.9.3

### Update from 0.9.2 to 0.9.3:

To update from 0.9.1 to 0.9.2 simply replace the `kirby` system folder. 

### Changes

- added a more verbose readme.mdown with more docs about the installation process.
- added a new xml parser, which generates xml safe output for strings. This can be used for feeds etc.
- totally rebuilt the file reading engine, which is way faster now – especially with deep file structures
- added a new pagination class, which makes it super easy to add pagination to sets of pages and sets of files: http://getkirby.com/docs/variables/pages
- added a new `$pages->not($uid)` function which is a shortcut for `$pages->without($uid)` and is more jquerish
- also added a new `$files->not($name)`
- added `$pages->limit($limit)` and `$files->limit($limit)`
- added `$pages->offset($offset)` and `$files->offset($offset)`
- added a better a::sort function to the kirby toolkit
- added a dir::inspect function to the kirby toolkit and removed the fdb class instead. 
- replaced the dir::read function code with faster/easier scandir code. 
- added a `$page->date($format)` function which makes it easy to specify a date variable for a page and afterwards get and format it in templates. 
- fixed a bug in the excerpt function
- added $pages->findOpen()
- added $page->isOpen()
- changed the default template.


## 0.9.2

### Update from 0.9.1 to 0.9.2:

To update from 0.9.1 to 0.9.2 simply replace the `kirby` system folder and the `index.php`. 
If you want to start from scratch, just replace the entire code.

### Changes

- new `$pages->flip()` function, which returns a set of pages in reverse order
- new `str::excerpt($string, $chars=140, $removehtml=true, $rep='…')` function in kirby/lib/kirby.php
- new `excerpt($string, $chars=140)` function in kirby/parsers/kirbytext.php
- removed default error display in kirby/system.php
- removed `ini_set` for php short open tags in kirby/system.php
- added a `date_default_timezone_set` to kirby/system.php
- added a custom config var + description for custom timezones to site/config.php
- drastically reduced the templates and snippets code
- moved images, javascript and styles to an asset folder. 
- slightly adapted the style of the demo template to the kirby site. 
- removed the plugins folder when not needed.
- removed all php short open tags from the default template to increase compatibility
- redesigned the index.php and kirby/system.php to keep path definitions more flexible. 

## 0.9.1

### Changes

- cleaned up templates
- trying to enable short open tags in .htaccess file. 